1. A company is implementing an application on Amazon EC2 instances. The application needs to process incoming transactions. When the application detects a transaction that is not valid, the application must send a chat message to the company's support team. To send the message, the application needs to retrieve the access token to authenticate by using the chat API.  A developer needs to implement a solution to store the access token. The access token must be encrypted at rest and in transit. The access token must also be accessible from other AWS accounts.  Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST management overhead?
	- Use AWS Secrets Manager with an AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) customer managed key to store the access token. Add a resource-based policy to the secret to allow access from other accounts. Update the IAM role of the EC2 instances with permissions to access Secrets Manager. Retrieve the token from Secrets Manager. Use the decrypted access token to send the message to the chat.
2. An application is using Amazon Cognito user pools and identity pools for secure access. A developer wants to integrate the user-specific file upload and download features in the application with Amazon S3. The developer must ensure that the files are saved and retrieved in a secure manner and that users can access only their own files. The file sizes range from 3 KB to 300 MB.  Which option will meet these requirements with the HIGHEST level of security?
	- Use an IAM policy within the Amazon Cognito identity prefix to restrict users to use their own folders in Amazon S3.
3. A financial company must store original customer records for 10 years for legal reasons. A complete record contains personally identifiable information (PII). According to local regulations, PII is available to only certain people in the company and must not be shared with third parties. The company needs to make the records available to third-party organizations for statistical analysis without sharing the PII. A developer wants to store the original immutable record in Amazon S3. Depending on who accesses the S3 document, the document should be returned as is or with all the PII removed. The developer has written an AWS Lambda function to remove the PII from the document. The function is named removePii. What should the developer do so that the company can meet the PII requirements while maintaining only one copy of the document?
	- Create an S3 Object Lambda access point from the S3 console. Select the removePii function. Use S3 Access Points to access the object without PII.
4. For a deployment using AWS Code Deploy, what is the run order of the hooks for in-place deployments?
	- ApplicationStop -> BeforeInstall -> AfterInstall -> ApplicationStart
5.  company wants to deploy and maintain static websites on AWS. Each website's source code is hosted in one of several version control systems, including AWS CodeCommit, Bitbucket, and GitHub. The company wants to implement phased releases by using development, staging, user acceptance testing, and production environments in the AWS Cloud. Deployments to each environment must be started by code merges on the relevant Git branch. The company wants to use HTTPS for all data exchange. The company needs a solution that does not require servers to run continuously. **Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST operational overhead?**
		- Host each website by using AWS Amplify with a serverless backend. Conned the repository branches that correspond to each of the desired environments. Start deployments by merging code changes to a desired branch. 
6. A company is migrating an on-premises database to Amazon RDS for MySQL. The company has **read-heavy** workloads. The company wants to refactor the code to achieve optimum read performance for queries. Which solution will meet this requirement with LEAST current and future effort?
	- Deploy Amazon RDS with one or more **read replicas**. Modify the application code so that queries use the URL for the read replicas.
7. A developer is creating an application that will be deployed on IoT devices. The application will send data to a RESTful API that is deployed as an AWS Lambda function. The application will assign each API request a unique identifier. The volume of API requests from the application can randomly increase at any given time of day. During periods of request throttling, the application might need to retry requests. The API must be able to handle duplicate requests without inconsistencies or data loss. Which solution will meet these requirements?
	- Create an Amazon DynamoDB table. Store the unique identifier for each request in the table. Modify the Lambda function to check the table for the identifier before processing the request.
	- I originally thought ElastiCache would provide the sufficient session management of the unique identifiers with the least latency. But apparently, the scope of this question revolves around durability, not latency. Hence, a persistent storage is better suited. And while RDS is a viable solution for durability and performance, the question specifies IoT devices which typically produce unstructured data that is better handled by No-SQL services like DynamoDB.
8. A developer wants to expand an application to run in multiple AWS Regions. The developer wants to copy Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) with the latest changes and create a new application stack in the destination Region. According to company requirements, all AMIs must be encrypted in all Regions. However, not all the AMIs that the company uses are encrypted. How can the developer expand the application to run in the destination Region while meeting the encryption requirement?
	- Create new AMIs, and specify encryption parameters. Copy the encrypted AMIs to the destination Region. Delete the unencrypted AMIs.
	- Unencrypted AMI can't be encrypted after creation. Need to create new encrypted AMI then it can be copied to other regions.
9. A developer needs to perform geographic load testing of an API. The developer must deploy resources to multiple AWS Regions to support the load testing of the API. How can the developer meet these requirements without additional application code?
	- Create an AWS CloudFormation template that defines the load test resources. Use the AWS CLI create-stack-set command to create a stack set in the desired Regions.
10. A developer is creating an application that includes an Amazon API Gateway REST API in the us-east-2 Region. The developer wants to use Amazon CloudFront and a custom domain name for the API. The developer has acquired an SSL/TLS certificate for the domain from a third-party provider. How should the developer configure the custom domain for the application?
	- Import the SSL/TLS certificate into AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) in the us-east-1 Region. Create a DNS CNAME record for the custom domain.
	- To use a certificate in AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) to require HTTPS between viewers and CloudFront, make sure you request (or import) the certificate in the US East (N. Virginia) Region (us-east-1).
11. A development team maintains a web application by using a single AWS CloudFormation template. The template defines web servers and an Amazon RDS database. The team uses the Cloud Formation template to deploy the Cloud Formation stack to different environments. During a recent application deployment, a developer caused the primary development database to be dropped and recreated. The result of this incident was a loss of data. The team needs to avoid accidental database deletion in the future. Which solutions will meet these requirements? (Choose two.)
	- Add a CloudFormation Deletion Policy attribute with the Retain value to the database resource.
	- Update the CloudFormation stack policy to prevent updates to the database.
12. A company has deployed infrastructure on AWS. A development team wants to create an AWS Lambda function that will retrieve data from an Amazon Aurora database. The Amazon Aurora database is in a private subnet in company's VPC. The VPC is named VPC1. The data is relational in nature. The Lambda function needs to access the data securely. Which solution will meet these requirements?
	- Create the Lambda function. Configure VPC1 access for the function. Attach a security group named SG1 to both the Lambda function and the database. Configure the security group inbound and outbound rules to allow TCP traffic on Port 3306.
13. A developer is writing an AWS Lambda function. The developer wants to log key events that occur while the Lambda function runs. The developer wants to include a unique identifier to associate the events with a specific function invocation. The developer adds the following code to the Lambda function. Which solution will meet this requirement?
	````python
	    function handler(event, context)
	    {
	    }
	````
	- Obtain the request identifier from the AWS request ID field in the context object. Configure the application to write logs to standard output.
	- The second argument is the context object. A context object is passed to your function by Lambda at runtime. This object provides methods and properties that provide information about the invocation, function, and runtime environment.
14. A developer is working on a serverless application that needs to process any changes to an Amazon DynamoDB table with an AWS Lambda function. How should the developer configure the Lambda function to detect changes to the DynamoDB table?
	- Enable DynamoDB Streams on the table. Create a trigger to connect the DynamoDB stream to the Lambda function.
15. A developer is using an AWS Lambda function to generate avatars for profile pictures that are uploaded to an Amazon S3 bucket. The Lambda function is automatically invoked for profile pictures that are saved under the /original/ S3 prefix. The developer notices that some pictures cause the Lambda function to time out. The developer wants to implement a fallback mechanism by using another Lambda function that resizes the profile picture. Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST development effort?
	- Set the image resize Lambda function as a destination of the avatar generator Lambda function for the events that fail processing.
16. A developer needs to migrate an online retail application to AWS to handle an anticipated increase in traffic. The application currently runs on two servers: one server for the web application and another server for the database. The web server renders webpages and manages session state in memory. The database server hosts a MySQL database that contains order details. When traffic to the application is heavy, the memory usage for the web server approaches 100% and the application slows down considerably. The developer has found that most of the memory increase and performance decrease is related to the load of managing additional user sessions. For the web server migration, the developer will use Amazon EC2 instances with an Auto Scaling group behind an Application Load Balancer. Which additional set of changes should the developer make to the application to improve the application's performance?
	- Use Amazon ElastiCache for Memcached to store and manage the session data. Use an Amazon RDS for MySQL DB instance to store the application data.
	- The database solution is not given.
17. A developer is testing a new file storage application that uses an Amazon CloudFront distribution to serve content from an Amazon S3 bucket. The distribution accesses the S3 bucket by using an origin access identity (OAI). The S3 bucket's permissions explicitly deny access to all other users. The application prompts users to authenticate on a login page and then uses signed cookies to allow users to access their personal storage directories. The developer has configured the distribution to use its default cache behavior with restricted viewer access and has set the origin to point to the S3 bucket. However, when the developer tries to navigate to the login page, the developer receives a 403 Forbidden error. The developer needs to implement a solution to allow unauthenticated access to the login page. The solution also must keep all private content secure. Which solution will meet these requirements?
	- Add a second cache behavior to the distribution with the same origin as the default cache behavior. Set the path pattern for the second cache behavior to the path of the login page, and make viewer access unrestricted. Keep the default cache behavior's settings unchanged.
18. An ecommerce company is using an AWS Lambda function behind Amazon API Gateway as its application tier. To process orders during checkout, the application calls a POST API from the frontend. The POST API invokes the Lambda function asynchronously. In rare situations, the application has not processed orders. The Lambda application logs show no errors or failures. What should a developer do to solve this problem?
	- Create and inspect the Lambda dead-letter queue. Troubleshoot the failed functions. Reprocess the events.
19. A developer is migrating some features from a legacy monolithic application to use AWS Lambda functions instead. The application currently stores data in an Amazon Aurora DB cluster that runs in private subnets in a VPC. The AWS account has one VPC deployed. The Lambda functions and the DB cluster are deployed in the same AWS Region in the same AWS account. The developer needs to ensure that the Lambda functions can securely access the DB cluster without crossing the public internet. Which solution will meet these requirements?
	- Configure the VPC, subnets, and a security group for the Lambda functions.
	- When we want the lambda to privately access the DB cluster instead of moving the traffic over the public internet, we need to have the lambda and db cluster to be in the same VPC. When we configure the VPC, subnets, and a security group for the lambda function, the lambda function will be able to communicate with the db cluster using the private IPs that are associated to the VPC. NAT gateway comes into use when you have the lambda deployed in a private subnet and you would want to provide internet access to it.
20. A company is building a serverless application that uses AWS Lambda functions. The company needs to create a set of test events to test Lambda functions in a development environment. The test events will be created once and then will be used by all the developers in an IAM developer group. The test events must be editable by any of the IAM users in the IAM developer group. Which solution will meet these requirements?
	- Create the test events. Configure the event sharing settings to make the test events shareable.
21. A developer is configuring an application's deployment environment in AWS CodePipeline. The application code is stored in a GitHub repository. The developer wants to ensure that the repository package's unit tests run in the new deployment environment. The developer has already set the pipeline's source provider to GitHub and has specified the repository and branch to use in the deployment. Which combination of steps should the developer take next to meet these requirements with the LEAST overhead? (Choose two.)
	- Create an AWS CodeBuild project. Add the repository package's build and test commands to the project's buildspec.
	- Add a new stage to the pipeline after the source stage. Add an action to the new stage. Specify the newly created project as the action provider. Specify the source artifact as the action's input artifact.
22.  An engineer created an A/B test of a new feature on an Amazon CloudWatch Evidently project. The engineer configured two variations of the feature (Variation A and Variation B) for the test. The engineer wants to work exclusively with Variation A. The engineer needs to make updates so that Variation A is the only variation that appears when the engineer hits the application's endpoint. Which solution will meet this requirement?
	- Add an override to the feature. Set the identifier of the override to the engineer's user ID. Set the variation to Variation A.
	- https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/cloudwatch-evidently/
23. A developer creates a VPC named VPC-A that has public and private subnets. The developer also creates an Amazon RDS database inside the private subnet of VPC-A. To perform some queries, the developer creates an AWS Lambda function in the default VPC. The Lambda function has code to access the RDS database. When the Lambda function runs, an error message indicates that the function cannot connect to the RDS database. How can the developer solve this problem?
	- Redeploy the Lambda function in the same subnet as the RDS instance. Ensure that the RDS security group allows traffic from the Lambda function.
24. A company has a web application that is deployed on AWS. The application uses an Amazon API Gateway API and an AWS Lambda function as its backend. 
    The application recently demonstrated unexpected behavior. A developer examines the Lambda function code, finds an error, and modifies the code to resolve the problem. Before deploying the change to production, the developer needs to run tests to validate that the application operates properly.  
    The application has only a production environment available. The developer must create a new development environment to test the code changes. The developer must also prevent other developers from overwriting these changes during the test cycle.  
    Which combination of steps will meet these requirements with the LEAST development effort? (Choose two.)
	- Update the Lambda function in the API Gateway API integration request to use the hotfix alias. Deploy the API Gateway API to a new stage named hotfix. Test the backend.
	- Modify the Lambda function by fixing the code. Test the Lambda function. When the Lambda function is working as expected, publish the Lambda function as a new version. Create the alias hotfix. Point the alias to the new version.
25. A social media application uses the AWS SDK for JavaScript on the frontend to get user credentials from AWS Security Token Service (AWS STS). The application stores its assets in an Amazon S3 bucket. The application serves its content by using an Amazon CloudFront distribution with the origin set to the S3 bucket.
    The credentials for the role that the application assumes to make the SDK calls are stored in plaintext in a JSON file within the application code. The developer needs to implement a solution that will allow the application to get user credentials without having any credentials hardcoded in the application code.
    Which solution will meet these requirements?
    - Add a Lambda@Edge function to the distribution. Invoke the function on viewer request. Add permissions to the function's execution role to allow the function to access AWS STS. Move all SDK calls from the frontend into the function.
26. A company is updating an application to move the backend of the application from Amazon EC2 instances to a serverless model. The application uses an Amazon RDS for MySQL DB instance and runs in a single VPC on AWS. The application and the DB instance are deployed in a private subnet in the VPC.
    The company needs to connect AWS Lambda functions to the DB instance. 
    Which solution will meet these requirements?
    - Create Lambda functions inside the VPC with the AWSLambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole policy attached to the Lambda execution role. Modify the RDS security group to allow inbound access from the Lambda security group.
27. A team is developing an application that is deployed on Amazon EC2 instances. During testing, the team receives an error. The EC2 instances are unable to access an Amazon S3 bucket. Which steps should the team take to troubleshoot this issue? (Choose two.)
	- Check whether the policy that is assigned to the IAM role that is attached to the EC2 instances grants access to Amazon S3. Most Voted
	- Check the S3 bucket policy to validate the access permissions for the S3 bucket.
28. A developer is developing an application that uses signed requests (Signature Version 4) to call other AWS services. The developer has created a canonical request, has created the string to sign, and has calculated signing information.
    Which methods could the developer use to complete a signed request? (Choose two.)
    - Add the signature to an HTTP header that is named Authorization.
    - Add the signature to a query string parameter that is named X-Amz-Signature.
29. A developer is creating an AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) template. The AWS SAM template contains the definition of multiple AWS Lambda functions, an Amazon S3 bucket, and an Amazon CloudFront distribution. One of the Lambda functions runs on Lambda@Edge in the CloudFront distribution. The S3 bucket is configured as an origin for the CloudFront distribution.
    When the developer deploys the AWS SAM template in the eu-west-1 Region, the creation of the stack fails.
    Which of the following could be the reason for this issue?
    - Lambda@Edge functions can be created only in the us-east-1 Region.
30. A developer is creating an AWS Lambda function. The Lambda function will consume messages from an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue. The developer wants to integrate unit testing as part of the function's continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) process.
    How can the developer unit test the function?
    - Use the aws lambda invoke command with a test event during the CIICD process.
    - Unit test is an isolated test.
31. A developer creates an AWS Lambda function that retrieves and groups data from several public API endpoints. The Lambda function has been updated and configured to connect to the private subnet of a VPC. An internet gateway is attached to the VPC. The VPC uses the default network ACL and security group configurations.
    The developer finds that the Lambda function can no longer access the public API. The developer has ensured that the public API is accessible, but the Lambda function cannot connect to the API
    How should the developer fix the connection issue?
    - Ensure that outbound traffic from the private subnet is routed to a public NAT gateway.
    - Lambda functions in a private subnet require a NAT (Network Address Translation) gateway or NAT instance in a public subnet to access the public internet, as private subnets do not have direct internet access. The VPC route table associated with the private subnet needs to have a route that directs internet-bound traffic to the NAT gateway.
32. A developer needs to store configuration variables for an application. The developer needs to set an expiration date and time for the configuration. The developer wants to receive notifications before the configuration expires.
	- Create an advanced parameter in AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store. Set Expiration and ExpirationNotification policy types
33. A company is developing a serverless multi-tier application on AWS. The company will build the serverless logic tier by using Amazon API Gateway and AWS Lambda.
    While the company builds the logic tier, a developer who works on the frontend of the application must develop integration tests. The tests must cover both positive and negative scenarios, depending on success and error HTTP status codes.
    Which solution will meet these requirements with the LEAST effort?
    - Set up a mock integration for API methods in API Gateway. In the integration request from Method Execution, add simple logic to return either a success or error based on HTTP status code. In the integration response, add messages that correspond to the HTTP status codes.
34. A developer is creating an AWS Lambda function that searches for items from an Amazon DynamoDB table that contains customer contact information. The DynamoDB table items have the customer’s email_address as the partition key and additional properties such as customer_type, name and job_title.
    The Lambda function runs whenever a user types a new character into the customer_type text input. The developer wants the search to return partial matches of all the email_address property of a particular customer_type. The developer does not want to recreate the DynamoDB table. What should the developer do to meet these requirements?
    - Add a global secondary index (GSI) to the DynamoDB table with customer_type as the partition key and email_address as the sort key. Perform a query operation on the GSI by using the begins_with key condition expression with the email_address property.
    - By creating a GSI with customer_type as the partition key and email_address as the sort key, the developer can efficiently query items based on customer_type. The begins_with condition can be applied to the sort key (email_address) in the GSI, allowing for searches that return partial matches.
35. A developer is building an application that uses AWS API Gateway APIs, AWS Lambda functions, and AWS DynamoDB tables. The developer uses the AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to build and run serverless applications on AWS. Each time the developer pushes changes for only to the Lambda functions, all the artifacts in the application are rebuilt.
    The developer wants to implement AWS SAM Accelerate by running a command to only redeploy the Lambda functions that have changed.
    Which command will meet these requirements?
    - sam sync --watch
    - The sam sync --watch command will only deploy the Lambda functions that have changed. This command uses AWS SAM Accelerate to compare the local versions of your Lambda functions to the versions deployed in AWS. If there are differences, the command deploys only the changed Lambda functions.
36. A developer is building an application that gives users the ability to view bank accounts from multiple sources in a single dashboard. The developer has automated the process to retrieve API credentials for these sources. The process invokes an AWS Lambda function that is associated with an AWS CloudFormation custom resource.
    The developer wants a solution that will store the API credentials with minimal operational overhead.
    Which solution will meet these requirements in the MOST secure way?
    - Use the AWS SDK ssm:PutParameter operation in the Lambda function from the existing custom resource to store the credentials as a parameter. Set the parameter value to reference the new credentials. Set the parameter type to SecureString.
37. A company uses a custom root certificate authority certificate chain (Root CA Cert) that is 10 KB in size to generate SSL certificates for its on-premises HTTPS endpoints. One of the company’s cloud-based applications has hundreds of AWS Lambda functions that pull data from these endpoints. A developer updated the trust store of the Lambda execution environment to use the Root CA Cert when the Lambda execution environment is initialized. The developer bundled the Root CA Cert as a text file in the Lambda deployment bundle.
    After 3 months of development, the Root CA Cert is no longer valid and must be updated. The developer needs a more efficient solution to update the Root CA Cert for all deployed Lambda functions. The solution must not include rebuilding or updating all Lambda functions that use the Root CA Cert. The solution must also work for all development, testing, and production environments. Each environment is managed in a separate AWS account.
    Which combination of steps should the developer take to meet these requirements MOST cost-effectively? (Choose two.)
    - Store the Root CA Cert in an Amazon S3 bucket. Create a resource-based policy to allow access to the bucket.
    - Refactor the Lambda code to load the Root CA Cert from the Root CA Cert’s location. Modify the runtime trust store outside the Lambda function handler.
38. A developer maintains applications that store several secrets in AWS Secrets Manager. The applications use secrets that have changed over time. The developer needs to identify required secrets that are still in use. The developer does not want to cause any application downtime.
    What should the developer do to meet these requirements?
    - Create a secretsmanager-secret-unused AWS Config managed rule. Create an Amazon EventBridge rule to initiate notifications when the AWS Config managed rule is met. 