# Prometheus

## Observability

- The ability to understand and measure the state of a system based upon data generated by the system.
## Definition
- Prometheus is an open-source monitoring tool that collects metrics data, and provide tools to visualize the collected data.
- Also generate alerts when metrics reach a user specified threshold.
- It collects metrics by scraping targets, and then stores data in a time series database which can be queried using PromQL.
- Designed to monitor time-series data that is numeric.
### Type of data should not monitor with Prometheus
- Events
- Logs
- Traces
## Use case
- Collect metrics from multiple source to display on a dashboard.
- Generate alert.
- Cross-reference metrics and events.
## Data
### Logs
- Logs are records of events that have occurred and encapsulate information about the specific event.
#### Structure
- Timestamp
- Message containing information
### Traces
- Traces allow you to follow operations as they traverses through various system and services.
#### Structure
- Start time
- Duration
- Parent ID
### Metrics
- Metrics provide information about the state of a system using numerical values:
  - CPU load
  - Number of open files
  - HTTP response times
  - Number of errors
#### Structure
- Metric name
- Value
- Timestamp
- Dimensions - additional information about the metricw
## Service level
### Service level indicator (SLI)
- A quantitative measure of some aspect of the level of service that is provided.
- Common SLIs:
  - Request latency
  - Error rate
  - Saturation
  - Throughput
  - Availability
### Service level objective (SLO)
- Target level for SLI.
- Ex:
  - SLI: availability
  - SLO: 99% uptime
### Service level agreement (SLA)
- A contract between a vendor and a user that guarantees certain of SLO.
