# Application Deployment Strategies
A method presented earlier for new application release rollouts was the Rolling Update mechanism supported by the Deployment operator. The Rolling Update mechanism, and its reverse - the Rollback, are practical methods to manage application updates by allowing one single controller, the Deployment, to handle all the work it involves. However, while transitioning between the old and the new versions of the application replicas, the Service exposing the Deployment eventually forwards traffic to all replicas, old and new, without any possibility for the default Service to isolate a subset of the Deployment's replicas. Because of the traffic routing challenges these update mechanisms introduce, many users may steer away from the one Deployment and one Service model, and embrace more complex deployment mechanism alternatives. 

The **Canary** strategy runs two application releases simultaneously managed by two independent Deployment controllers, both exposed by the same Service. The users can manage the amount of traffic each Deployment is exposed to by separately scaling up or down the two Deployment controllers, thus increasing or decreasing the number of their replicas receiving traffic. 

The **Blue/Green** strategy runs the same application release or two releases of the application on two isolated environments, but only one of the two environments is actively receiving traffic, while the second environment is idle, or may undergo rigorous testing prior to shifting traffic to it. This strategy would also require two independent Deployment controllers, each exposed by their dedicated Services, however, a traffic shifting mechanism is also required. Typically, the traffic shifting can be implemented with the use of an Ingress.