At times we need to define specific privileges and access control settings for Pods and Containers. [Security Contexts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/) allow us to set Discretionary Access Control for object access permissions, privileged running, capabilities, security labels, etc. However, their effect is limited to the individual Pods and Containers where such context configuration settings are incorporated in the **spec** section. 

In order to apply security settings to multiple Pods and Containers cluster-wide, we can use the [Pod Security Admission](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/), a built-in admission controller for Pod Security that is enabled by default in the API Server. It can enforce the three [Pod Security Standards](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) at namespace level, by automating the security context restriction to pods when they are deployed. Each Pod Security Standard profile, _privileged_, _baseline_, and _restricted_, defines a level of security that ranges from entirely unrestricted (for privileged workload), to enforcing pod hardening best practices (for security critical applications and less trusted users). The security levels are defined by sets of pod security context controls that are pre-determined for each standard.
# Accessing API
- To perform any action in a k8s cluster, you need to access API and go through 3 main steps:
	- Authentication (Certificate or webhook).
	- Authorization (RBAC or webhook).
	- Admission controls: admission controllers will check the actual content of the objects being created and validate them before admitting the request.